 ¹english as a world language  . 
¹introduction    ¹my intention is to describe the importance of ¹english and give a brief account of its history and how it has spread all over the world. 
¹i will begin with defining what a world language is and then ¹i will describe the way ¹english has reached the position it has today. 
¹i will continue with some up-to-date statistics and then mention some different varieties of ¹english and explain the terms ¹pidgins and ¹creoles. 
¹i find it important to investigate how it is possible for a language spoken by so few at the beginning to become a world language which is quite familiar to so many people. 
¹my sources are secondary, since it is difficult to find good primary sources on this subject.    
. 
¹definition of a world language    ¹what is a world language? 
¹according to the ¹swedish ¹encyclopaedia ¹nationalencyklopedin () it is a language which is spoken or understood by a considerable number of people around the globe. 
¹thus languages such as ¹chinese (¹mandarin), ¹english and ¹arabic are world languages, but not ¹swedish or artificial languages such as ¹esperanto. 
¹to a large extent the position of a language as a world language depends on the literature (books, papers and scientific works) that is written in that language. 
¹english meets with these criteria and is the dominating world language of today. 
¹seen from a historical point of view otherlanguages have occupied the position as world languages; in the th and th centuries ¹french was the dominating language. 
¹before that ¹latin and ¹greek dominated in the medieval and ancient ¹europe.    
. 
¹the spread of ¹english    ¹at the beginning ¹english was not a widely spread language. 
¹in ¹shakespeare's time the number of people speaking ¹english was as low as a few millions. 
¹as the population grew the number of ¹english speakers did as well. 
¹english gradually became the main language of ¹wales, ¹ireland and the ¹scottish ¹highlands. 
¹when the ¹english commenced to explore the wide world outside the ¹british ¹isles the first step on the way to ¹english becoming a world language had been taken. 
¹the ¹english began to colonise other continents in the th and th centuries. 
¹the ¹british settlers spoke ¹english, but there were many settlements in the ¹new ¹world from other nations, and they all spoke their native tongue. 
¹for a very long time ¹english, ¹spanish, ¹french and ¹dutch colonisers fought for the dominance of the ¹caribbean and by the early th century ¹britain had control of a number of the ¹west ¹indian islands. 
¹this resulted in ¹english becoming the most spoken language of the area. 
¹the ¹english also took control over the ¹indian subcontinent and a few years later the ¹british colonisation of ¹australia took place. 
¹british rule was established in ¹singapore, ¹british ¹guiana, ¹new ¹zealand and ¹hong ¹kong and later on also in parts of ¹west ¹africa, ¹east ¹africa and ¹southern ¹africa (¹barber :-). 
¹the ¹english dominance is mainly due to political and economical reasons, e.g. the strength of the ¹british ¹empire during the th and th centuries. 
¹after ¹world ¹war two the position of the ¹u¹s became increasingly more powerful as regards political, economical, technical, scientific and generally cultural areas.    
. 
¹statistics    ¹english is used in over  countries as an official or semi-official language. 
¹according to ¹stora ¹focus () the largest ¹english speaking populations are found in the ¹u¹s ( million), the ¹u¹k ( million), ¹canada ( million), ¹australia ( million), ¹new ¹zealand ( million), ¹ireland ( million) ¹south ¹africa ( million) and ¹jamaica ( million). 
¹english is the official language in all these countries and has an official status in over  more countries with approximately one milliard inhabitants in all. 
¹the largest of these are ¹india, ¹pakistan and the ¹philippines. 
¹as a first language ¹english is spoken by more than  million people all over the world of today. 
¹another  million use it regularly as a second language. 
¹a further  million speak it more or less fluently as a foreign language and of the estimated  million users of the ¹internet the majority communicate in ¹english. 
¹since the middle of the th century ¹english is the language that is most frequently taught at school in most countries all over the world. 
¹its central position in the international communication is due to the fact that the majority of all scientific publications printed in the world are in ¹english. 
¹for example  of the medical journals published in  were in ¹english. 
¹the main language of books, newspapers, airports and air-traffic control, international business and academic conferences, technology, diplomacy, sport, international competitions, pop music and advertising is ¹english.    
. 
¹varieties    "¹although ¹english has become an international language, it lacks any independent standard codification or description that adequately reflects its international character," says ¹samuel ¹ahulu in his article "¹general ¹english" (). 
¹there are nowadays many varieties of ¹english and to discuss them in detail is far too complex to deal with here. 
¹some of the varieties are; ¹british ¹english (abbreviated ¹r¹p; ¹received ¹pronunciation), ¹american ¹english (¹a¹e) and ¹canadian ¹english as well as ¹australian, ¹new ¹zealand, ¹south ¹african, and ¹west ¹indian ¹english. 
¹these varieties differ as regards pronunciation, stress, intonation and vocabulary.    
. 
¹pidgins and ¹creoles    ¹there are probably well over two hundred ¹pidgin- and ¹creole-languages in the world today, and they are based on many different languages such as ¹french, ¹portuguese and ¹zulu but the largest number is based on ¹english. 
¹between six and twelve million people are still using ¹pidgin languages and between ten and seventeen million are using languages descending from ¹pidgins, so called ¹creoles. 
¹a ¹pidgin is an auxiliary language used mainly by people trading with each other when they have no common language. 
¹the word ¹pidgin is thought to be from a ¹chinese ¹pidgin version of the ¹english word business. 
¹you might say that the ¹pidgin is a simplified form of the dominant language. 
¹the grammatical morphology is simple and the vocabulary is limited. 
¹maybe the most known ¹pidgin is the one of ¹papua ¹new ¹guinea, called ¹tok ¹pisin, which even is acknowledged in the country's constitution, although it nowadays more accurately should be described as a ¹creole. 
¹when a ¹pidgin develops beyond its role as a trade language and becomes the first language of a social community, it is called a ¹creole. 
¹there is, however, no sharp distinction between a ¹pidgin and a ¹creole. 
(¹yule , ¹barber )    . 
¹conclusion    ¹it is most likely that ¹english will continue to keep its position as a world language also in the future. 
¹no other language shows any signs of threatening ¹english as the leading language. 
¹especially as regards the ¹i¹t-market, which is the most important field of exploration and development in the future, ¹english is the dominating language of communication. 
¹this is due to the fact that the ¹u¹s is the leading state on the market. 
¹it is extremely advantageous that there is such a language as ¹english by which you are able to communicate all over the world. 
¹english is in truth a world language.

