 ¹an peculiar lady crossed my path, once again!  
¹reading ¹david ¹malouf's "¹remembering ¹babylon" you come across many different, yet similar characters and we get to know them in the way that ¹malouf provides us with their distinctive features or characteristics. 
¹i intend to concentrate my essay on the character of ¹mrs ¹hutchence, and provide you with statements, quotes and situations that in my opinion lead to characterise her as being peculiar in her ways, mysterious, big-hearted, practical and somehow respected by the people of ¹bowen. 
¹she's a very fascinating person that keeps to herself which also annoys the ¹bowen'ers.   
¹the very first time we meet ¹mrs ¹hutchence, the narrator gives us a very distinct image of her. 
¹i'm referring to when she meets ¹mr ¹abbott just outside of town, on one of her escapades. 
¹the narrator describes her through the eyes of ¹mr ¹abbott: "and when he turned a woman was there, an old woman in brown, rather squat, bareheaded, and wearing boots that were a size too big for her. 
¹he recognised her immidiately though they had never been introduced." (page )  ¹mrs ¹hutchence is a hardworking woman, but she doesn't mind ocassional assistance. 
¹as on page  when she asks ¹mr ¹abbott for help, in her own special way: " -' ¹here ', she said, as she came up beside him, 'take this', and passed the end of a branch to him, '¹i can manage the rest'." 
¹he finds her somewhat obnoxious. 
"¹he had heard of this. 
¹her name was ¹hutchence. 
¹she lived three miles out on the ¹bowen road, not in a hut, in a real house, and regularly had a load she wanted carrying or a job out there she wanted doing." (page ) ¹the towners of ¹bowen find her too frustratingly mysterious and are of course suspicious of her, as she reveales nothing, and you know what that does to people in small towns or villages, all sorts of rumours occur. 
"¹no one knew where she came from- that is she had vouchsafed no information- or how she could afford to build a real house, or why of all the places she had decided to do it here, or what relation she bore, if any, to the young woman who lived with her, whose name, he knew, was ¹leona." 
"¹though she had too much of the domestic about her, to be a source of mystery, he could see quite well that she might be a puzzle." 
(¹page -, ¹abbott) ( - - - ) ¹a person they seldom get to see, but for whom they have respect. 
¹she appears to be a secluded yet influential person. 
¹in the end of the book for example, ¹mrs ¹frazer, the ministers wife, one evening talks to her husband about ¹gemmy, who were to move in with ¹mrs ¹hutchence, to ease things for the ¹mc¹ivors, who already had their hands full. 
"-¹and you know what ¹mrs ¹hutchence is. 
¹they won't try their nonsence with her." (page ) ¹this tells us, she is a person to be reckoned with. 
¹in the book we learn as we go along that she is of a caring and nurturing nature and actually takes a liking to ¹gemmy, and feels comfortable with having him around, and his friends for that matter. 
¹this only amplifies my view on her nurturing nature. 
¹mrs ¹hutchence seem to long for a big family, people to take care of. 
¹she's not only a woman of wealth and class, she's also learnt to take care of things. 
¹when ¹gemmy's friends for the very first time come to visit at the house we see yet another side of her, the practical side. 
"¹they saw ¹mrs ¹hutchence from far off, looking unfamiliar in a bonnet and veil, with her skirts hiked up and her big boots flopping. 
¹billowy clouds of smoke issued from her sleeves so that she herself was shadowy, and the bees, where they passed through the slanty sun-shafts were dazzling sparks." (page ) ¹at first ¹gemmy's friends are shocked of her appearance, but soon they take a liking to her and begin to spend more and more time over at her house, and big-hearted as she is, she lets them. 
¹mrs ¹hutchence gives an image of a chubby, apple-cheeked elderly lady, that always has something up her sleeve.  
¹this concludes my essay on the fascinating character of ¹mrs ¹hutchence for whom ¹i feel affectionately. 
¹not only is she a woman of her time, but she helps you hold on to the thought that there are good people in this world, weither at present or in the past. 
¹mrs ¹hutchence plays an important part in this quite intriguing novel, with her very own way of helping ¹gemmy.

