 ¹english, my ¹english!  
¹assesing ones strengths and weaknesses in any situation is a hard task. 
¹usually we are not so good at recognizing our strengths, instead we spend our time being critical of ourselves, thus we tend to present a much more detailed side of our flaws. 
¹i will try to give you a reasonable picture of my good and not quite as good sides, as ¹i see them, in reference to the four skills that were mentioned in the guide-lines handed out earlier in regard of this essay.   y biggest weakness by far is reading in ¹english. 
¹i most of the time find it quite boring, it probably has to do with the fact that ¹i'm a very outgoing person and therefore ¹i like meeting people and ¹i prefer to converse with them. 
¹a contributing factor to my feelings about reading also has to do with the fact that ¹i'm just not used to it, which makes reading a bit uncomfortable. 
¹it takes time to read and it is not by far as fun as actually talking with someone.
¹you miss out on facial expressions and the dialogue for example. 
¹it's not that ¹i can't manage, ¹i just don't find it all that amusing, at times. 
¹this leads too the fact that ¹i more or less skim through anything written in ¹english, which ultimately results in my misinterpretations. 
¹but ¹i am indeed working on that partly since it is required in order to be able to teach but also for my own benefit. 
¹i have been known to read books in ¹english on occasion though. 
¹preferably novels taking place during the nineteenth century when in my personal opinion the ¹english language was at its best. 
¹i think it's terrible that we've lost so much of the chivalry, the sence of class and style that one can encounter in for example ¹jane ¹austens' "¹pride  ¹prejudice", or the vocabulary used in ¹shakespeares works.  
¹this brings us to the speaking, which ¹i believe is one of my strongest features, not only when it comes to speaking ¹english, but speaking in general. 
¹i admit that it sometimes does get out of hand. 
¹you see, in my previous ¹english classes ¹i've always been the one to speak my opinion and discuss things that are important to me. 
¹this might and actually has lead to the fact that others who are not as forward as ¹i am just sit quiet and on top of that they're doing absolutely nothing to change or take any kind of initiative to speak. 
¹this annoyes me, should ¹i keep holding back to suit them or should ¹i allow myself the oportunity to improve and broaden my horizons!? 
¹in this class though it doesn't seem to be a thing that even needs to be discussed, since everybody is fairly good in ¹english, and not at all shy.  
¹i do know how and when to use a very formal vocabulary, but ¹i tend to disregard that at times when ¹i get "too comfortable" with the person ¹i'm addressing, it's not a lack of respect or anything of that nature, ¹i just get too "buddy-ish". 
¹i think that speaking a lot helps me improve all the aspects of ¹english, writing, reading, listening but most importantly to communicate in any given situation. 
¹my desire to communicate enables people in my everyday life to correct me when ¹i'm wrong and vice versa. 
¹i believe there are two kinds of ¹english students. 
¹the ones that learn the language by using grammar and dictionaries and school-¹english, not that there is anything wrong with that. 
¹in fact ¹i think it's a good start, a solid base to begin at. 
¹and then the others, much like myself, who learn by actually speaking, conversing and therefore picking up a rich vocabulary. 
¹both have advantages and disadvantages. 
¹i've learned my ¹english by speaking, practising and perhaps mostely by listening to others.  
¹listening is also one of my strengths. 
¹for this is where ¹i learn and adapt. 
¹i like watching news, documentaries or whatever is on in ¹english. 
¹if ¹i'm lucky ¹i might even catch one of ¹david ¹attenboroughs' "wild-life-documentaries". 
¹he has an elegant vocabulary and intonation. 
¹although ¹i must say that if it were possible to choose ¹i'd pick one of the people behind the series of "¹the young ones", preferably ¹rick ¹mayallik. 
¹but ¹i'm not apposed to listening to sports either, as long as it is ¹english.  
¹i've come to the last of the four skills, namely writing. 
¹i think ¹i'm fairly good at that. 
¹it takes a lot of hard work though. 
¹when ¹i took "¹business ¹english" last fall we got to do a lot of inquiries, and business-letters which ¹i enjoyed very much. 
¹at times it is easier to write when you have a given assignment, than to just come up with an idea.
¹this forces me to try not to drift away, as ¹i have a tendency to do just that. 
¹i've never had an ¹english pen pal, so ¹i've never really written on a regular basis other than when ¹i've been in school. 
¹my knowledge of gramatical terms is terrible which might be detected from time to time. 
¹although ¹i seem to be able to communicate without any larger difficulties.   
¹in conclusion: ¹it seems ¹i've got my work cut out for me for at least the next two years ahead. 
¹hopefully ¹i'll learn to master things and tackle my weak spots quickly. 
¹after that there are other challenges that need to be attended to.

