 ¹in the name of ¹religion, you can get away with anything!  
¹with this argumentative piece ¹i've tried to shed a light on the consequences of religion. 
¹what goes on, apart from all of the good deeds man does in the name of religion. 
¹i've devided them in five headings, all regarding different aspects of the topic. 
¹i myself am not a believer. 
¹i'm a naturally born critic or sceptic, if you will. 
¹i firmly believe that it should be up to every manwoman to inividually process information and facts that are given or thrown upon us. 
¹just because something has been going on for a long period of time doesn't necessarily mean it's alright.  
) ¹religion is prohibiting.  
¹it compromises the person. 
¹religion prevents individual thinking and persuades mankind to accept and "buy the whole concept" of its ideas in the scriptures. 
¹the scriptures compromise peoples prerogative to think for themselves, they roothlesly rob people of their natural ability to evaluate and act on their own intuition. 
¹religion makes the individual fall in line and not to question anything it says. 
¹is that a good thing, ¹i ask? 
¹is compromising yourself necessary, in the name of religion?  
) ¹religion causes conflicts.  
¹lets look at religion in a passed-present-future perspective.  
¹i don't think ¹i'm going out on a limb if ¹i point out that more or less all wars, some excluded originates from religious grounds and believes. 
¹the discontent of people who don't agree with you or don't share your believes causes conflicts in the name of religion.  
) ¹religion prevents individual freedom.  
¹in the end of , an ¹irish-catholic girl was brutaly raped and got pregnant. 
¹she suffered in agony for she wanted to have the foetus removed but her religion forbids abortion. 
¹her case was globaly acknowledged in the media and many, myself included felt for her and witnessed the madness, in the name of religion. 
¹the bible, an ancient book of moral clauses and devises for a pure way of life, said she couldn't have an abortion. 
¹luckely she could get help in ¹england and have the abortion done there. 
¹imagine if she hadn't, what life would that child have led!?  
) ¹religion discriminates.  
¹sure, it unifies certain people who share the same ideology. 
¹on the other hand it condems different genres even within the same religion and thus the people who don't agree with them. 
¹people who don't share their point of view or religious believes. 
¹is it righteous to commit cruel actions as long as it is in the name of religion?   
) ¹religious downpayment!? 
¹even in the early days you were able to go to your church and seek repentance for your sins. 
¹you mearly went to a priest and confessed and he would gladly give it to you. 
¹he might suggest that you ought to do a few ¹hail ¹mary's and suddenly in an instance you had been forgiven. 
¹back then you could even assure your place in heaven when buying a letter of indulgence. 
¹buy your way into the ¹lords glory, heaven, kingdom or what ever you preferred. 
¹today's version of that same phenomena is called ¹televangelism. 
¹the 's way to repentance. 
¹televised fundraisings, usually held by a spiritual leader of some kind. 
¹he would very convincingly encourage the viewers to support his "cause", by donating obnoxiously large sums of money to him and the "cause".  
¹the cause might be o an honest nature, to build evangelist churches or help the poor. 
¹but in some cases they were spend for personal gain by the so called prophet. 
¹outrageous news of spiritual leaders spending their money on prostitutes and extramarital affairs. 
¹these people who are supposed to set an example to their followers. 
¹i guess their only human, but it can't feel all that to be good old ¹mrs ¹lewis in the south of ¹california, who recently donated a large sum to "reverend ¹chastity", and learn that he has spent "her" money on questionable things, can it!? 
¹it's a strange world we live in where some people profits from other peoples misery.   
¹conclusion: ¹imagine a world without prejudice of religion, race, colour or believes! 
¹almost impossible to picture ¹i know. 
¹religion should be more humble and "human", it should serve as a medium that brings people together, not to discriminate. 
¹i'm not saying that it should be removed or terminated, because many people need to be able to put their trust in a supreme being. 
¹it needs to be alteredchanged or modified, since everything else has been in order to fit in in today's society. 
¹many vicious things have been done, is being done and will be done in the name of religion. 
¹it is not acceptable! 
¹t¹a¹k¹e ¹a¹c¹t¹i¹o¹n!

